---
title: "Blog 11"
layout: default
categories: posts
---
# DHCP
<p> Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP) is used to dynamically provide IP address configuration
to clients. Although it is possible to configure servers by using DHCP, it is more commonly
used for client computers. </p>
<p> When a computer is configured to use a dynamic IP address, the following process is performed
at startup: </p>

1. The client sends a DHCPDiscover packet. This is a broadcast to which all available DHCP servers can respond.

2. All DHCP servers send a DHCPOffer packet. This packet contains IP addressing information that can be used by the client.

3. The client sends a DHCPRequest indicating that it accepts the DHCPOffer. The first DHCPOffer received is the one that is accepted. All DHCP servers identify which offer
was accepted, so that they don’t reserve addresses for too long.

4. The DHCP server responds with a DHCPAck. This identifies that the DHCP knows that the offer was accepted and that the client can begin using the IP address information that
was in the offer.

<p> Because routers almost always block broadcast packets from passing between networks, DHCP Discover packets are not normally able to cross from one network to another through routers. To allow a single DHCP server to service multiple subnets, you need to implement a DHCP relay. A DHCP relay listens on a subnet and forwards DHCP packets to a subnet with a DHCP server. The DHCP server uses the IP address of the DHCP relay to identify the subnet that the request is coming from and provide an offer on that subnet.</p>

<h2> Rogue DHCP Servers </h2>
<p> When an unauthorized DHCP server is connected to a network, 
it can hand out incorrect configuration information to clients. 
Windows-based DHCP servers can be controlled through authorization, 
but non-Microsoft DHCP servers have no mechanism for authorization. </p>

<p> Most of the time, a rogue DHCP server is identified when one or more 
clients are configured with incorrect DHCP addresses. It’s pretty rare
for someone to set up a Linux-based DHCP server on your network—unless
it’s done accidentally by IT staff who are doing something  like building 
a test lab. A more common scenario would be when network users add an unauthorized
network device, such as a wireless access point (AP) that has DHCP functionality. </p>

<p>Tracking down a rogue DHCP server is difficult because you need to do it
based on the MAC address of the DHCP server. However, by using the MAC address,
and reviewing the MAC addresses in the routing tables of switches, you should be 
able to identify a specific switch port to which the rogue
DHCP is attached. </p>

<p> A DHCP server can be used to provide IP addressing information for both IPv4 and IPv6. However, it is relatively rare to use IPv6 internally, and this section focuses on using IPv4. If you choose to implement DHCPv6, there are two modes: </p>

* Stateless. In this mode, the DHCP client generates its own IPv6 on the network based on router advertisements from the local router. DHCP options such as DNS server are still
obtained from the DHCP server.

* Stateful. In this mode, the DHCP client is configured with an IPv6 address from the DHCP server. This is similar to how DHCPv4 operates.

<b>Source:</b> Cisco
