---
title: "Blog 9"
layout: default
categories: posts
---

<h1> Installing and Configuring Network Applications (Web Server, FTP, TFTP) - Part 1 </h1>
<h2> Tools and Software needed: </h2>
<p> Server 2016/2019Installation </p>

*  FileZilla Server ( You can Install Linux Server as FTP server )
*  Tftpd64

<p> Client Windows 10 Installation </p>

*  PuTTY
*  FileZilla Client
*  Wireshark

<h2> Wireshark Captures </h2>

<p> Wireshark is a network packet analyzer (also known as a packet sniffer). Wireshark is a computer
program that can intercept, log and display the traffic passing over a digital network (or part of a
network). It can be used to log data traveling over a variety of network types (cable, wireless) and,
provided that the content of the data packets is unencrypted, display that data in real time. </p>

<p> Packet sniffers like Wireshark can be used for a variety of purposes both good: </p>
1.  Analyze network problems and  test network communication.
2.  Debug client/server communications and other network protocol communications.
3.  Monitor network usage and bandwidth (including internal and external users and systems).
4.  Detect network misuse by internal and external users.
5.  Detect network intrusion attempts (like port scanning).
6.  Filter suspect content from network traffic.
<p> and bad... </p>
* Gain information for effecting a network intrusion
* Spy on other network users and collect sensitive information such as passwords (depending on any content encryption methods which may be in use).

<h2> Getting Wireshark: </h2>
<p> Wireshark is free and supported on all Windows, Mac and Linux/Unix machines. It can be obtained by
going to: </p>
