---
title: "Blog 10"
layout: default
categories: posts
---

# Security Mechanisms Part 1
<p> Since the early days of computer technology, security has been a vital issue for both IT professionals
and developers. How do we secure our computers, operating systems, software, networks,
and communications? These were the questions that computer professionals were asked
all the time—and many projects in every organization were performed to configure security
settings at the maximum possible level. Well, so many years after those first computers, the
questions remain the same. Technology is evolving. Unfortunately, computer attacks have also
evolved. </p>
## Security Overview
<p> Beginning with Windows Server 2003, Microsoft introduced a new strategy for operating systems—
secure by default and secure by design. This means that many security settings are
enabled by default. For example, Windows Firewall with Advanced Security is enabled by
default and Windows Updates are enabled by default. From that version until now, many new
technologies have been introduced and included in the Windows Server operating system that
organizations can use to increase their security to the maximum level. Furthermore, operating
system features have been developed with security design in mind. However, providing security
for your organization’s IT resources has never been nor will it ever be something that you
can “set it and forget it.” Every organization must be aware of the latest security threats and act
appropriately to protect their IT resources. </p>
<h2> Where to Begin? </h2>
<p> Even if you have never worked with security solutions, there are a couple of things that you can
do before you bring the experts into your organization or before you start your own security technologies 
and techniques training. We have identified several important components of operating
system security that are great starting points for protecting your organization from malicious
behavior and attacks. </p>
#### Windows Firewall 
<p> You should always run Windows Firewall and open only the ports that
are needed for network communication of the specific server. Best practice is to work closely
with your colleagues from the other departments (such as network admins and AD admins)
so they can tell you what ports are being used by your infrastructure servers (such as domain
controllers and DNS servers) and application and database servers (such as intranet applications,
Exchange Server, SQL Server, Skype for Business, and SharePoint). </p>
#### Windows Updates 
<p> Most of the viral Internet attacks in the past spread over the Internet so
quickly because computers had not been updated with the latest operating system updates.
Furthermore, the updates that would have prevented those attacks weren’t newly released
updates; they were released long before an actual attack was executed. Remember, because
you are working with servers running different kinds of software, best practice is to test new
Windows updates in a nonproduction environment first, before you deploy them to production
servers.</p>
#### Anti-Malware Software 
<p> Depending on the type of a server, anti-malware protection must
be enabled and updated with latest malware definitions. Best practice is to be aware of application
restrictions on anti-malware software, such as for Exchange Server, where you need to
configure exclusions so that certain folders or file types are not scanned. Furthermore, ensure
that all other clients and devices in your network have anti-malware installed and updated. </p>
#### User Permissions 
<p> Users (including administrators) must have sufficient permissions to
perform their job-related activities and nothing more; this is also known as the “principle of
least privilege.” </p>
#### Admin Permissions 
<p> Even admins should work as standard users and only run administrative
tasks with elevated permissions, because any type of malware that tries to use user permissions
will be restricted to user-level permissions. </p>
#### User Credentials 
<p> Security best practices for user credentials are explained in other chapters
in this book, where you will read that passwords need to meet complexity requirements
in order to be more secure. Furthermore, password lockout policies must be in place to protect
against brute force attacks, where an attacker tries multiple combinations of words in order
to guess user passwords. </p>
<p> Be regularly informed about the latest security threats and read the recommendations and
best practices from the software and hardware vendors of the equipment and solutions you are
using in your organization. </p>
<p> Now that you have a foundation on which to learn, let’s get into the detailed planning for
security in Windows Server. </p>

Continue to read Part 2 in <a href="https://mikehosseini.github.io/mikehosseini.github.io/posts/2020/11/20/Blog-11.html"><b>Blog 11</b></a>
