---
title: "Blog 4"
layout: default
categories: posts
---
<meta charset="utf-8">
<body>
<header role="banner">
  <h2>HTML Reference</h2>
</header>
  <main role="main">
      <article role="article">
        <header>
          <p>On this page you&rsquo;ll find a quick reference to common HTML terms
          and a table of frequently used named character
          entities</p>
        </header>
        <section>
          <h3>HTML Terms</h3>
          <dl>
            <ol>
              <li><dt>Attribute</dt></li>
              <dd> An HTML element property that provides additional information or
              functionality for an element. Attributes appear as a name/value pair
              with the value contained in quotation marks. </dd>
              <li><dt>Block-Level Element</dt></li>
              <dd>HTML tags that create blocks of content within the document such
              as headings and paragraphs. Block-level elements typically stack one
              on top of each other based on the order they appear in the code. </dd>
              <li><dt>Child Element </dt></li>
              <dd>Any HTML element that is contained inside another HTML element.
              Child element tags must close before their parent element tags. </dd>
              <li><dt>Closing Tag </dt></li>
              <dd>Appears after an element&rsquo;s content and indicates the end of
              an element. Is identical to an element&rsquo;s opening tag with the
              addition of a forward slash (/) prior to the tag&rsquo;s character.
              </dd>
              <li><dt>Comment </dt></li>
              <dd>Reference information added to the code. May include an overview
              of more complex code, a reminder for future authors, or communications
              within a team. </dd>
              <li><dt>CMS </dt></li>
              <dd>CMS is short for <b>Content Management System</b>, and refers to
              any system designed to allow users to create and maintain content. For
              the web, it primarily refers to software designed to manage web sites
              and their content. Examples include Joomla! and WordPress.</dd>
              <li><dt>CSS </dt></li>
              <dd>Cascading Style Sheets (CSS)is a presentation language used to
              control the presentation and layout of web pages. </dd>
              <li><dt>Doctype </dt></li>
              <dd>Short for <b>Document Type Declaration</b>. Appears at the top of
              all HTML documents to trigger standards mode and identifies the
              version of HTML used by the document. </dd>
              <li><dt>DOM </dt></li>
              <dd>The DOM, or <b>Document Object Model</b>, is a representation of
              documents like HTML. The DOM can be thought of as an outline where
              tags are represented by &ldquo;nodes.&rdquo; Scripting languages like
              JavaScript reference the DOM when accessing or modifying page content.
              </dd>
              <li><dt>Elements </dt></li>
              <dd>HTML elements consist of an HTML tag, used to identify the
              content, and the content itself. Is often used interchangeably with
              the term &ldquo;tags&rdquo; although technically tags only refer to
              the tag itself. </dd>
              <li><dt>FTP </dt></li>
              <dd>FTP stands for <b>File Transfer Protocol</b>. It&rsquo;s a common
              protocol used for transferring large files from one server to another.
              </dd>
              <li><dt>HTTP </dt></li>
              <dd>HTTP, or <b>Hypertext Transfer Protocol</b>, controls the
              formatting and transmission of HTML pages across web servers. </dd>
              <li><dt>Inline-Level Elements </dt></li>
              <dd>Elements that appear within the normal flow of text. Unlike
              block-level elements, inline-level elements do not start new lines
              within the normal document flow. </dd>
              <li><dt>JavaScript </dt></li>
              <dd>Scripting language developed by Netscape and used to control much
              of the functionality and behavior on the web. </dd>
              <li><dt>Metadata </dt></li>
              <dd>Additional information about the document or document content,
              typically stored in meta tags. </dd>
              <li><dt>MIME Type </dt></li>
              <dd>Short for <b>Multipurpose Internet Mail Extension,</b> MIME types
              are used to tell user agents what type of program a file or extension
              is. Without a proper MIME type, user agents can have trouble properly
              running applications or processing files. </dd>
              <li><dt>Parent Element </dt></li>
              <dd>An HTML element that contains another element. It is possible for
              an element to be a child of one element and the parent of another.
              </dd>
              <li><dt>Replaced Element </dt></li>
              <dd>Any HTML element where the contents of the element are replaced by
              something else. Examples would be images, video, or other plug-in
              content. </dd>
              <li><dt>Tag </dt></li>
              <dd>Markup characters that indicate what type of content appear on the
              page. Most tags consist of both an opening and closing tag. </dd>
              <li><dt>URL </dt></li>
              <dd>URL stands for <b>Uniform Resource Locator</b>. It serves as the
                address of a document or other resource on the web. </dd>
            </ol>
            </dl>
            </section>
          </article>
    </main>
  </body>
