---
title: "Blog 1"
layout: default
categories: posts
---
<h1> Build Infrastructure with Terraform - Part 2 </h1>
<h1> Terraform Block </h1>
<p> The <code>terraform {}</code> block is required so Terraform knows which provider to download from the Terraform Registry. In the configuration above, the aws provider's source is defined as <code>hashicorp/aws</code> which is shorthand for <code>registry.terraform.io/hashicorp/aws</code>.</p>
<p> You can also assign a version to each provider defined in the <code>required_providers</code> block. The "version" argument is optional, but recommended. It is used to constrain the provider to a specific version or a range of versions in order to prevent downloading a new provider that may possibly contain breaking changes. If the version isn't specified, Terraform will automatically download the most recent provider during initialization.</p>

<h1> Providers </h1>
<p> The provider block configures the named provider, in our case aws, which is responsible for creating and managing resources. A provider is a plugin that Terraform uses to translate the API interactions with the service. A provider is responsible for understanding API interactions and exposing resources. Because Terraform can interact with any API, you can represent almost any infrastructure type as a resource in Terraform.</p>
<p> The profile attribute in your provider block refers Terraform to the AWS credentials stored in your AWS Config File, which you created when you configured the AWS CLI. HashiCorp recommends that you never hard-code credentials into <code>*.tf</code> configuration files. We are explicitly defining the default AWS config profile here to illustrate how Terraform should access sensitive credentials.</p>
<p> Multiple provider blocks can exist if a Terraform configuration manages resources from different providers. You can even use multiple providers together. For example you could pass the ID of an AWS instance to a monitoring resource from DataDog. </p>


<h1> Resources </h1>
<p> The resource block defines a piece of infrastructure. A resource might be a physical component such as an EC2 instance, or it can be a logical resource such as a Heroku application. </p>

<p> The resource block has two strings before the block: the resource type and the resource name. In the example, the resource type is <u> aws_instance </u> and the name is example. The prefix of the type maps to the provider. In our case "aws_instance" automatically tells Terraform that it is managed by the "aws" provider. </p>

<p> The arguments for the resource are within the resource block. The arguments could be things like machine sizes, disk image names, or VPC IDs. Our providers reference documents the required and optional arguments for each resource provider. For your EC2 instance, you specified an AMI for Ubuntu, and requested a <u> t2.micro </u> instance so you qualify under the free tier. </p>

<h1> Initialize the directory </h1>
<p> When you create a new configuration — or check out an existing configuration from version control — you need to initialize the directory with <code> terraform init</code>.</p>

<p> Terraform uses a plugin-based architecture to support hundreds of infrastructure and service providers. Initializing a configuration directory downloads and installs providers used in the configuration, which in this case is the aws provider. Subsequent commands will use local settings and data during initialization. </p>

<pre><code>
<span style="color:red"> $ terraform init </span>

Initializing the backend...

Initializing provider plugins...
- Finding hashicorp/aws versions matching "~> 3.27"...
- Installing hashicorp/aws v3.27.0...
- Installed hashicorp/aws v3.27.0 (signed by HashiCorp)

Terraform has created a lock file .terraform.lock.hcl to record the provider
selections it made above. Include this file in your version control repository
so that Terraform can guarantee to make the same selections by default when
you run "terraform init" in the future.

Terraform has been successfully initialized!

You may now begin working with Terraform. Try running "terraform plan" to see
any changes that are required for your infrastructure. All Terraform commands
should now work.

If you ever set or change modules or backend configuration for Terraform,
rerun this command to reinitialize your working directory. If you forget, other
commands will detect it and remind you to do so if necessary.

</code></pre>
