---
title: "Blog 0"
layout: default
categories: posts
---
<h1> Build Infrastructure with Terraform - Part 1 </h1>
<p> With Terraform installed, you're ready to create your first infrastructure. </p>
<p> You will provision an Amazon Machine Image (AMI) on Amazon Web Services (AWS) in this tutorial, since AMIs are widely used. </p>

<h2> Prerequisites </h2>
<p> To follow this tutorial you will need: </p>
<ol>
  <li>An AWS account</li>
  <li>The AWS CLI installed</li>
  <li>Your AWS credentials configured locally.</li>
</ol>
<p> With your account created and the CLI installed configure the AWS CLI. </p>

<pre><code> $ aws configure </code></pre>

<p> Follow the prompts to input your AWS Access Key ID and Secret Access Key# If You don't know how to do it <a href="https://console.aws.amazon.com/iam/home?#security_credential"> CLICK HERE.</a> </p>
<p> The configuration process creates a file at <code> ~/.aws/credentials </code> on MacOS and Linux or <code> %UserProfile%\.aws\credentials </code> on Windows, where your credentials are stored. </p>
<h1> Write configuration </h1>
<p> The set of files used to describe infrastructure in Terraform is known as a Terraform configuration. You'll write your first configuration now to launch a single AWS EC2 instance. </p>
<p> Each configuration should be in its own directory. Create a directory for the new configuration. </p>
<pre><code> $ mkdir learn-terraform-aws-instance </code></pre>
<p> Change into the directory. </p>
<pre><code> $ cd learn-terraform-aws-instance </code></pre>
<p> Create a file for the configuration code. </p>
<pre><code> $ touch example.tf </code></pre>
<p> Paste the configuration below into <code> example.tf </code> and save it. Terraform loads all files in the working directory that end in <code> .tf </code> </p>

<pre><code>
  terraform {
  required_providers {
    aws = {
      source  = "hashicorp/aws"
      version = "~> 2.70"
    }
  }
}

provider "aws" {
  profile = "default"
  region  = "us-west-2"
}

resource "aws_instance" "example" {
  ami           = "ami-830c94e3"
  instance_type = "t2.micro"
}
</code></pre>
#### To use this snippet with Terraform 0.12, remove the terraform { } block.
<p> This is a complete configuration that Terraform is ready to apply. In the following sections we'll review each block of the configuration in more detail. </p>
