---
title: "Blog 4"
layout: default
categories: posts
---
<h1> Enable TLC HTTPS Certificate </h1>
<p> You'll need a certificate (a form of file) from a Certificate Authority to allow HTTPS on your website. for doing that, we can use the Certbot ACME client. With no downtime, it can automate certificate issuance and installation. Expert modes are available for those who do not want autoconfiguration. It's easy to use, compatible with a variety of operating systems, and comes with extensive documentation.</p>
<p> To use Certbot, you'll need ... an HTTP website that is already online with an open port <b>80</b> which is hosted on a server which you can access via SSH with the ability to sudo </p>
  
  <h2> 1. SSH into the Server </h2>
  <p> As a user with sudo privileges, SSH into the server that hosts your HTTP website. </p>
  <h2> 2. Install snapd </h2>
  <p> To get classic snap support, you'll need to install snapd and make sure you follow any instructions. </p>
  <a href="https://snapcraft.io/docs/installing-snapd/"> Install snapd </a>
  <h2> 3. Ensure that your version of snapd is up to date </h2>
  <p> Using the command line on the machine to ensure that you have the latest version of snapd.</p>
  <pre><code> $ sudo snap install core; sudo snap refresh core </code></pre>
  
  <h2> 4. Remove certbot-auto and any Certbot OS packages </h2>
  <p> If you have any Certbot packages installed via an OS package manager such as apt, dnf, or yum, you can uninstall them before installing the Certbot snap to ensure that the snap is used instead of the installation via your OS package manager when you run the command certbot. The command to remove certbot varies depending on your operating system, but common examples include <b>sudo apt-get remove certbot</b>, <b>sudo dnf remove certbot</b>, and <b>sudo yum remove certbot</b>.</p>
  <h2> 5. Install Certbot </h2>
  <pre><code> $ sudo snap install --classic certbot </code></pre>
  
  <h2> 6. Prepare the Certbot command </h2>
  <p> Execute the following instruction on the command line on the machine to ensure that the certbot command can be run. </p>
  <pre><code> $ sudo ln -s /snap/bin/certbot /usr/bin/certbot </code></pre>
  
  <h2> 7. Choose how you'd like to run Certbot Either get and install your certificates... </h2>
  <p> Run this command to get a certificate and have Certbot edit your Apache configuration automatically to serve it, turning on HTTPS access in a single step. </p>
  <pre><code> $ sudo certbot --apache </code></pre>
  <p> Or, just get a certificate If you're feeling more conservative and would like to make the changes to your Apache configuration by hand, run this command: </p>
  <pre><code> sudo certbot certonly --apache </code></pre>
  
  <h2> 8. Test automatic renewal </h2>
  <p> Certbot packages provide a cron job or systemd timer that will automatically renew your certificates before they expire. Unless your configuration changes, you will not need to run Certbot again. Run the following command to see if your certificates are automatically renewed: </p>
  <pre><code> sudo certbot renew --dry-run </code></pre>
  
<p> The command to renew certbot is installed in one of the following locations: </p>
<b>
/etc/crontab/ <br>
/etc/cron.*/* <br>
systemctl list-timers <br>

<h1> 9. Confirm that Certbot worked </h1>
<p> To confirm that your site is set up properly, visit <a href="https://yourwebsite.com/"> https://yourwebsite.com/ </a> in your browser and look for the lock icon in the URL bar. </p>
