---
title: "Blog 2"
layout: default
categories: posts
---
<h1> Format and validate the configuration </h1>
<p> We recommend using consistent formatting in files and modules written by different teams. The terraform fmt command automatically updates configurations in the current directory for easy readability and consistency. Format your configuration. Terraform will return the names of the files it formatted. In this case, your configuration file was already formatted correctly, so Terraform won't return any file names. </p>

<pre><code> $ terraform fmt </code></pre>

<p> If you are copying configuration snippets or just want to make sure your configuration is syntactically valid and internally consistent, the built in terraform validate command will check and report errors within modules, attribute names, and value types. </p>

<p> Validate your configuration. If your configuration is valid, Terraform will return a success message. </p>

<pre><code> 

$ terraform validate
Success! The configuration is valid. 

</code></pre>

<h2> Create infrastructure </h2>
<p> In the same directory as the main.tf file you created, run terraform apply. Terraform will print output similar to what is shown below, though we've truncated some of the output to save space. </p>

<pre><code> $ terraform apply

An execution plan has been generated and is shown below.
Resource actions are indicated with the following symbols:
  + create

Terraform will perform the following actions:

  # aws_instance.example will be created
  + resource "aws_instance" "example" {
      + ami                          = "ami-830c94e3"
      + arn                          = (known after apply)
##...

Plan: 1 to add, 0 to change, 0 to destroy.

Do you want to perform these actions?
  Terraform will perform the actions described above.
  Only 'yes' will be accepted to approve.

  Enter a value:
  </code></pre>

<p> This output shows the execution plan, describing which actions Terraform will take in order to change real infrastructure to match the configuration.

The output format is similar to the diff format generated by tools such as Git. The output has a + next to aws_instance.example, meaning that Terraform will create this resource. Beneath that, it shows the attributes that will be set. When the value displayed is (known after apply), it means that the value won't be known until the resource is created.

Terraform will now pause and wait for your approval before proceeding. If anything in the plan seems incorrect or dangerous, it is safe to abort here with no changes made to your infrastructure.

In this case the plan is acceptable, so type yes at the confirmation prompt to proceed. Executing the plan will take a few minutes since Terraform waits for the EC2 instance to become available. </p>

<pre><code> Enter a value: yes

aws_instance.example: Creating...
aws_instance.example: Still creating... [10s elapsed]
aws_instance.example: Still creating... [20s elapsed]
aws_instance.example: Still creating... [30s elapsed]
aws_instance.example: Creation complete after 36s [id=i-01e03375ba238b384]

Apply complete! Resources: 1 added, 0 changed, 0 destroyed.
</code></pre>

<p> You've now created infrastructure using Terraform! </p>
