---
title: "Blog 5"
layout: default
categories: posts
---
<h1> Installing and Configuring Network Applications (Web Server, FTP, TFTP) </h1>
<h2> Tools and Software needed: </h2>
<p> Server 2016/2019 Installation </p>

*  FileZilla Server ( You can Install Linux Server as FTP server )
*  Tftpd64

<p> Client Windows 10 Installation </p>

*  PuTTY
*  FileZilla Client
*  Wireshark

<h2> Wireshark Captures </h2>

<p> Wireshark is a network packet analyzer (also known as a packet sniffer). Wireshark is a computer
program that can intercept, log and display the traffic passing over a digital network (or part of a
network). It can be used to log data traveling over a variety of network types (cable, wireless) and,
provided that the content of the data packets is unencrypted, display that data in real time. </p>

<p> Packet sniffers like Wireshark can be used for a variety of purposes both good: </p>
1.  Analyze network problems and  test network communication.
2.  Debug client/server communications and other network protocol communications.
3.  Monitor network usage and bandwidth (including internal and external users and systems).
4.  Detect network misuse by internal and external users.
5.  Detect network intrusion attempts (like port scanning).
6.  Filter suspect content from network traffic.
<p> and bad... </p>
* Gain information for effecting a network intrusion
* Spy on other network users and collect sensitive information such as passwords (depending on any content encryption methods which may be in use).

<h2> Getting Wireshark: </h2>
<p> Wireshark is free and supported on all Windows, Mac and Linux/Unix machines. It can be obtained by
going to: </p>
<a href="http://www.wireshark.org/download.html">Wireshark Download</a>

<h2>  Select a Network Device </h2>
<p> When you first start Wireshark you will be brought to the default startup screen. In order to begin a
network capture you will need to choose a network device to use. There are several ways to do this: for
now you can simply select the "List the Available Capture Devices" button.</p>

<p> In the pop-up box that appears you will need to select one of the devices available on your machine. </p>
<p> Most machines will only have one network interface available. </p>
<p> In the "Capture Options" window that appears uncheck the "Capture packets in promiscuous mode"
checkbox (we only want to capture messages sent directly to your own machine). The click "Start" in
both the "Capture Options" window and then in the "Capture Interfaces" window. </p>
